---
title: "3010 North Wabash"
slug: "3010-north-wabash"
has_map: false
---

Someone's home defines him or her. It portrays their character and personality in more ways than one. Every home has its own story, which tells tales of unforgettable memories and moments of the family living there. The home does this through its owners, its structural characteristics, and architectural changes over time.

Prior to 1901, Wesley A. Dunn and his wife, Carrie J. Dunn, owned the property, which includes 3010 N. Wabash Road. Mr. and Mrs. Wesley Dunn and their three children, Grace, Edith, and Francis, resided at 917 W. Fourth Street, Marion (City Directory). When Wesley passed away around 1897, Carrie was granted possession of the property (Death Records). On November 26, 1901, Carrie sold the land to Turner Dunn, Wesley's brother, and his wife Emma Dunn for the price of one dollar (Abstract). Carrie later moved her residency to 114 ½ W. Fourth Street, Marion (City Directory). Mr. and Mrs. Turner Dunn took sole ownership of the property on December 12, 1901 (Abstract). Turner was a local farmer who resided at 418 N. Branson Street, Marion. He and his wife had two children, George and Hazel (City Directory). On May 22, 1934 Turner Dunn quit claimed the property to his wife (Abstract). Turner Dunn was stated deceased on October 20, 1936. About five years later, on February 7,1941, Emma passed away, leaving her children to inherit the property (Death Records). Hazel Dunn eventually became Hazel White when she married Wilson E. White. George Dunn married a woman by the name of Harriett Van Gorder and became manager of Dick's Café, 415 S. Adams Street, Marion (City Directory). George resided at 309 N. Washington Street, Marion (City Directory). On September 23, 1941, George Dunn quit claim released the property to Harman R. Goldthwaite and Mary B. Goldthwaite for one dollar. Three years later, on July 21, 1944, Hazel White sold her portion of the property to the Goldthwaite family for the same price (Abstract). Harman Goldthwaite was a local physician who resided at 129 N. Branson Street, Marion until building the home on Wabash Road (City Directory). Having only lived in the home for about five years, Dr. Goldthwaite passed away on December 8, 1946 (Death Records). Mary Goldthwaite continued to live in the relatively new home for four years following the death of her husband. Then, on September 5, 1950, Mary Goldthwaite sold the home to Lucy Bartels for \$33,250 (Abstract). Although Lucy Bartels now owned the property, she never came to call it home. She continued to reside on Quarry Road, Apartment 9A (City Directory). Lucy Bartels finally sold the home to Paul I and Julia Ann Lutz on July 17, 1967 (Abstract). The Lutz family had one son, Timothy of Orlando, Florida (Death Records). Paul I Lutz was a well-known and well-respected businessman in Marion. He died on September 6, 1996. Julia passed away shortly after on August 5, 1997 (Death Records). After their deaths, Timothy inherited the home and moved from Florida to reside there. Timothy, his wife, and his daughter only lived in the home for about two years. On January 21, 1999, the home was sold to Daniel J. Stump and his wife, Dayna. They currently live in the home with their daughter, Mallory, and their son, Taylor (Abstract).

The home's structure was built at the top of a 5.37-acre hill, looking out over Wabash Road and various fields and neighborhoods (Survey Report). The architects for the project were Oscar F. Cook and Kenneth W. Williams of 206-10 Lincoln Building, Kokomo, Indiana (Specifications for the Residence). The home has approximately 2440 square feet. It is equipped with three bedrooms, three bathrooms, and one fireplace (Realtors Residential Customer report). The home is a perfect example of classic Greek revival architecture with its symmetrically balanced façade, front pediment gable, and columned front and side porches. The home was built upon steel beams, which is unusual for the time period. The basement of the home is partial and contains a concrete crawl space, opposed to an unfinished crawl space with a dirt floor, common for the time of building. It is stated in the records of the house that Mr. Goldthwaite purchased the building lumber for the home and then kept it in dry storage for more than 10 years to be sure it had cured and would not warp. Originally, there was an open porch on the west end of the house that repeated the columns on the front of the house. During the time of the Lutz's residency, Mrs. Lutz had the porch screened in. In 200l, Mrs. Stump had the screened porch converted to a three seasons room with glass windows. The columns remain as visible evidence of the original appearance. There is an attic in the home that runs the full length of the home and the garage. Its original intent was to be used as an apartment for the maid or butler. It has the capability of being finished, with heat and plumbing already provided. Butler bells are throughout the home, which were used as an easy request for service. Hardwood floors flow through the entire home. These were made of yellow pine, or shiplap, and laid diagonally with open joints (Specifications for the residence). The foyer and windowsills of the home has marble flooring that was selected by the original owner. Chandeliers throughout the dining room, foyer, and halls are original to the home, and are full lead cut crystal. A floor-to-ceiling mural covers the walls of the morning room, kitchen, and stairs to the basement. The mural was painted while the Lutz family lived in the home. Robert Lohman, an artist out of Indianapolis, painted it and it required over one month to finish. It was completed in November of 1971 (Mural). There is also a reproduction painting over the fireplace in the living room that was completed by the artist right on the wall. It is a copy of a painting originally done by Jean Honore Fragonard titled "The Swing". The frame of the painting is a combination of plaster molding and trump loi. A friend of the Lutz family completed this painting in the same time period.

As new owners have taken over the home, it has experienced many changes and received a face-lift in many of the rooms. Dayna Stump has painted the walls in the living room, foyer, bathrooms, and all three bedrooms. She has removed the velvet-textured wallpaper that once lined bookshelves and walls. Dayna has also covered the wood flooring in several of the rooms including the living room, foyer, and dining room with large, custom-fit area rugs. She has continued to add her own personal touches to the home. She recently finished a mural of cherubs on the ceiling of the dining room. Her future plans for the home consist of remodeling the kitchen, finishing the basement, and also adding a second story by finishing the attic area. Dayna hopes to do so while maintaining the home's original character and potential.

This home's personality and charisma shines through the stories and events that have taken place within its walls. Its changes throughout the years have added interest and character to its architectural and structural traits. No one knows what the future holds for this home or for the future families that will live there, but one can assume that they will have a great impact on both.

## Works Cited {#works_cited}

-   Abstract. Obtained from Grant County Abstract Office. 1-9. 13 December 2003.
-   City Directory. Obtained from Marion Public Library. December 2003.
-   Death Records. Obtained from Marion Public Library. December 2003.
-   Lohman, Robert. Stump Household, Marion.
-   Realtors Residential Customer Report. Obtained from Cannon Reality. 15 December 2003.
-   Specifications for the Residence of H.R. Goldthwaite. Obtained from Dayna Stump. 38-55. 28 December 2003.
-   Survey Report. Obtained from Dayna Stump. 28 December 2003.

## Credits

Mallory Stump submitted this paper on January 2, 2004 for Mr. Munn\'s AP U.S. History class at Marion High School.
